# 4/3/2018

## [SBDO (Draft)](https://www.dropbox.com/s/umuyepakpdb111g/article.pdf?dl=0) Continued from Yesterday

Makes sure instances satisfy hard constraints and maximise objective functions.

A Constraint Optimisation Problem (COP) is a set of variables, domains of those variables, constraints and objectives. A constraint is a function of the domains that yields a boolean. An objective is a function of the domains that yields a positive real (bigger = better).

A Distributed COP (DCOP) adds a set of agents, each of which controls a disjoint subset of variables. A constraint or objective is local to an agent if that agent controls all the variables involved.

"DCOPs are designed for situations where ... it is not practical to combine all the knowledge in one place."

A Dynamic DCOP (DynDCOP) is a sequence of DCOPs where each problem has atleast one variable unchanged from the previous problem. A solution to a DybDCOP is a series of solutions to each DCOP.

The neighbourhood graph of a DCOP is a graph whose vertices are agents, and whose edges are agents that control variables that contribute to the same objective or constraint.

An assignment of a DCOP is an agent, a set of variable-value pairs, and the utility of that assignment with respect to the agent's local objectives.

An evaluation of a DCOP is an objective, a value for each variable in that objective, and the value of that objective given those values.

A proposal of a DCOP is a series of assignments, whose agents form a simple path through the neighbourhood, and a set of evaluations.

A nogood of a DCOP is a set of variable-value pairs and a set of constraints such that the assignment fails atleast one constraint. A minimal nogood is one where no subset of either set combined with the entire other set would form a nogood.

The total utility of a proposal is the sum of the utilities of all of its assignments and evaluations.

The ordering over proposals is lexicographic, considering
1. Highest total utility
1. Highest number of assignments
1. Some consistent random function of proposals (eg. hash)

Each agent stores
* The agent that its current proposal is based off
* Its current proposal
* The most recently received proposal from each agent
* All nogoods received (and their senders)
* The most recent proposal sent to each agent
* The multiset of nogoods sent (and their recepients)
* A subset of objectives that includes atleast all the ones that its variables effect
* A subset of constraints that includes atleast all the ones that its variables effect

Agents can send proposals and nogoods to each other. Agents can tell other agents to remove nogoods. The environment can tell agents to add or remove constraints or objectives, and must include the details of any agents the recepient might be unaware of. Agents can ask other agents to resend their most recent proposal.

Messages are processed by agents in the following order
1. Changes to nogoods
1. Changes to constraints and objectives
1. New proposals
1. Requests to resend proposals

A nogood becomes obsolete if one of its constraints is removed.

The algorithm is designed to tend to delete nogoods accidentally, rather than to add nogoods accidentally, since extra nogoods can cause legitimate solutions to be discarded, while missing nogoods will only mean bad solutions are proposed, after which the appropriate nogood will be resent.

"This will normally require a centralized COP solver inside each agent"

The find solution algorithm (Section 4.2) is very vaguely described here, but might be better defined in the summary.

[Source Code](http://www.geeksinthegong.net/svn/sbdo/trunk/). Yay.

## [SBDO (Summary)](https://www.dropbox.com/s/1rcey7s3rho13or/59250641.pdf?dl=0)

Having the total order of solutions is what prevents cyclic behaviors, since each change to an agent's view must increase the solution's order, a cycle cannot occur.

## [SBSD](http://ro.uow.edu.au/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1147&context=infopapers)

DisCSP ~ DCOP

The problem being approached here is slightly different than the one addressed by SBDO, in that there is no objective to maximise, only constraints to fulfil. Also, the paper only briefly and informally addresses the possiblity of constraints changing.

A proposal's variable assignments include the number of values that a previous assignment had eliminated. This will only work when variables have finite domains. This value is then used in deciding the strength of a proposal.

## [Linear Temporal Logic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_temporal_logic) Continued from Yesterday

Adding to Modal Logic, Linear Temporal Logic has symbols for "next" (X or a circle) and "is true until" (U). So w |= X x means that after this instant of w passes, x is true, and w |= x U y means that until y is true (and y must eventually be true), x is true. w<sup>n</sup> is used to denote w after n moments.

Reading R as releases might make more sense, so xRy means "x being true releases that y must be true". Fx = trueUx, denoted with the diamond. Gx = falseRx, denoted with the square. xWy is a weaker version of xUy where y need not ever occur.

Recursion...
* x U y <-> y | ( x & X(x U y) )
* x W y <-> y | ( x & X(x W y) )
* x R y <-> y & (x | X(x R y) )
* G x <-> x & X(G x)
* F x <-> x | X(F x)

### [Modal Logic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modal_logic)

Adding to predicate logic, Modal logic has symbols for "necessary that" (□) and "possible that" (◇).

Most interpretations of Modal Logic involve some set of worlds and a graph of accessiblity between them, so that "necessary that" means "forall worlds accessible from this", and "possible that" means "there exists a world accessible from this".

The reason that □p->p is not necessarily true is that □ is here interpreted to not include the current world, but all worlds that could be transitioned to.

#### [S1o - Zeman (1973)](http://users.clas.ufl.edu/jzeman/modallogic/chapter05.htm)

xÉy and Cxy both mean x->y

Dxy = z means z is the most general statement that can be deduced from x and y

Kxy means x&y

Axy means x|y

Nx means ~x

Exy means x<->y

G ® Q for sets of formulas G and Q means the conjunction of G implies the disjunction of Q. So {a,b} ® {c,d} means (a & b) -> (c | d), and {} ® {} means True -> False, since the empty conjunction is True and the empty Disjunction is false.

Mx and àx both mean ◇x

Lx means □x

x≺y and ℂxy both mean ~◇(x&~y), or □(x->y)

£xy means (□(x->y))&(□(y->x))

## [μ-Calculus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modal_%CE%BC-calculus)

Mu Calculus formulas, given a set of propositions, actions, and variables, are made up of a proposition or variable, the conjunction of formulas x and y to yield x&y, the negation of a formula x to yield ~x, the boxing of an action a to a formula x to yield [a]x, and the binding of a variable Z using a nu (ν) in a formula x to yield νZ.x, as long as all free occurrences of Z in x have an even number of negations applied.

We also define x|y = ~(~x&~y), &lt;a&gt;x = ~[a]~x, and μZ.x = ~νZ.~x[Z/~Z], where x[Z/~Z] means replacing all free occurences of Z in x with ~Z (x[Z/~Z] could also could be written (λZ.x)(~Z)).

The [[x]]\_i operator yields the set of states where x is true and i is an interpretation of the variables.

An interpretation of a variable is a set of states where it is true.

Actions are (non-deterministic) transitions between states, and [a]x holds in states where taking all a transitions out of that state yields states where x is true. &lt;x&gt; holds in states where taking one a transition yield out of that state yields a state where x is true.

νZ.x holds in states that are in some set of states T, where under the interpretation that Z is T, x holds for all states in T. μZ.x holds in states that are in all sets of states T where, under the interpretation that Z is T, the states where x holds is a subset of T.

"Satisfiability of a modal μ-calculus formula is EXPTIME-complete"
