# 20/3/2018

## [Sysdig Container Monitoring](https://go.sysdig.com/container-intelligence-platform-whitepaper)

Their decision to have per-host monitoring is the same I came up with, though I didn't consider the alternative. It is good to see this approach has merits.

Sysdig is flagging collectd as having high file IO latency. It seems to collect a lot of information quickly using a variety of monitoring tools, and exposes the data in a way that can be filtered and aggregated. By providing filters in the arguments, data can be filtered more easily (and probably more efficiently).

The paper suggests all monitoring data be stored, and none of it filtered.

Sysdig appears to have a tool for collecting data from many hosts and grouping it by application. This is similar to what matrix will do, but shouldn't be hard to implement.

Even if sysdig isn't used, it's a good way of monitoring containers.

## OpenTracing

It's possible containers will report information as OpenTracing formatted data, so being able to easily get data from OpenTracing formats might be useful.

## Thoughts

Check that the licence on the monitoring tools allows for commercial use.

## Possible Monitoring Tools

### perf

Not the most powerful. Probably allows commercial use.

### bcc

Most powerful, requires writing code (python, C) to do anything, but has plenty of examples and tutorials which are already more powerful than perf. Allows commercial use.

### ply

Not quite as powerful as bcc, but easier to write in a custom scripting language, and with fewer dependencies and lightweight. Allows commercial use.

### collectd

Can collect most of the data we need. Has builtin rrdtool support and python support. Probably allows commercial use, though different plugins have different licences.

### sysdig

Collects lots of data, including container specific data. Has builtin support for filters. Licence may not allow for commercial use.

## RRDtool

This is a database tool designed to sample data as it goes. It seems simple enough to use, and so might be useful for creating prototypes of monitoring setups. Other database setups might be more practical for deployment, especially if we wish to calculate more complicated aggregates.

Note that calling `rrdtool update` frequently might slow down the system with frequent writes to disk.

There is a python rrdtool binding. I wonder if bcc and rrdtool could be combined through python.

Does not allow commercial use except under the GPL licence.

## Prometheus

Reminds me of cadvisor in many ways, including not running properly on my system.

## [Whisper](https://github.com/graphite-project/whisper)

Similar to RRDtool but written in python. It does allow commercial use. Does not appear to have a python interface, though that might not be hard to add?

## influxDB

A full database with http interface, designed for timed data. Allows commercial use.

## Conclusion

Using bcc with whisper is probably the best option for now.
