# 17/3/2018

## [WeaveWorks - Scope](https://github.com/weaveworks/scope) continued

This tool shows more details about container connectivity than cadvisor, but still lacks information about network traffic. It does seem to show cpu and memory use, but without any history, so cadvisor wins there.

## [Grafana](https://grafana.com/)

This is for visualising montioring data. It looks very good, and it might be worth making a plugin for visualising Overwatch data. Depends how that works economically.

## [Tracing Network Packets with BCC](https://blog.yadutaf.fr/2017/07/28/tracing-a-packet-journey-using-linux-tracepoints-perf-ebpf/)

This shows the power of BCC. It can do lots. It will be worth reading this to get an idea how to do stuff in BCC if we have to.

Couldn't get BCC working, might need a newer OS.

## OpenTracing

To use OpenTracing requires modification of the server code. This is not suitable for matrix, as we want to monitor containers.

## [iPerf3](https://github.com/esnet/iperf)

This is a simple command line tool to check the bandwidth between two computers. It takes 10 seconds and sends as much data as possible by default, this could probably be configured. Note that after installing, running `ldconfig` will fix any linking issues.

## Thoughts

To monitor downtime, it might be useful for developers to specify a testing message, which will cause no side effects, to send to a piece of software to check it is still running. For example a http server might have get requests for various pages included, which are sent occasionally to the server (if it has no other traffic) to check it's still running and doesn't need a reboot.
