## [StatsD and CollectD](http://serverfault.com/questions/523351/how-do-statsd-and-collectd-relate)

### CollectD
is a statistics collection daemon.
- Periodically polls statistics sources for metrics. or receive metrics.

### StatsD 
is an event counter service.
- Requires application to send events

### Relation
CollectD can use StatsD as an input (plugin).

### [TODO] have a go at StatsD and CollectD

## [Profiling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Profiling_%28computer_programming%29)
A form of dynamic program analysis acheived by instrumenting the program source code or its binary executable with a profiler.
- e.g. space/time complexity, usage of instruction, frequency/duration of function call etc.

### Program event gathering techniques
- hardware interrupt
- code instrumentation
- instruction set simulation
- os hooks
- performance counters

### Profiler outputs
- **profile**: a statistical summary of the events observed
    - size of measurement data is linear to code size
    - usually sufficient for sequential programs
- **trace**: a stream of recorded events
    - size of a full trace is linear to the instruction path length, impractical. Initiate and terminate at certain point to limit output.
    - required for parallel programs
- An ongoing interaction with the **hypervisor**(continuous or periodic monitoring via on-screen display for instance)

### Applications
- identify performance bottlenecks
- understand code from a timing point of view
- design and optimization of algorithms
- **application performance management systems**

### Profiler types
#### based on output
- Flat profiler: computes average call times; do not break down call times based on callee/context
- Call-graph profiler: call times/frequency of functions and also call chains (reveals callee)
- Input-sensitive profiler: relate performance measures with input size or values. characterize how performance scales as a function of input

#### based on data granularity (how they collect information)
- Event based: supported by languages. e.g. Java, .NET, Python, Ruby. 
- Sampling based: probes target program's call stack at regular intervals using os itnerrupts.
    - Typically less accurate and specific but allows target programto run at near full speed.
- Instrumentation based: adds instructions to target program to collect the required information
    - can cause performance changes.
- Hypervisor/Simulator
